Silent payments in the Guide (#1109)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/how-it-works/silent-payments.md

---
layout: guide
title: Silent payments
description: How silent payments impact and improve bitcoin UX
nav_order: 11
parent: How it works
permalink: /guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/

> redirect_from:

Reviewer: You can delete the redirect lines. Those are only if a page URL is changed, to forward old links to the new one.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/ac341d1d28599f83bd4aaf955467f51d00caadf6

 - /guide/onboarding/creating-a-new-wallet/
 - /guide/onboarding/first-use/
main_classes: -no-top-padding

> image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header.png

Reviewer: This should be a custom image that is 1200x630.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/1617122d661dee455ee5d2e10d5e379472f540ca

image_base: /assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/carousel-images/
images_contacts:
    - file: clipboard-options-add-contacts-or-pay

>       modalImage: clipboard-options-add-contacts-or-pay

Reviewer: Modal images should be separate, bigger, images.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/ac341d1d28599f83bd4aaf955467f51d00caadf6

      alt: .
      caption: .
    - file: contact-page
      modalImage: clipboard-options-add-contacts-or-pay
      alt: .
      caption: .
    - file: contacts-list
      modalImage: clipboard-options-add-contacts-or-pay
      alt: .
      caption: .
    - file: home-screen-with-contacts
      modalImage: clipboard-options-add-contacts-or-pay
      alt: .
      caption: .

images_sp-onboarding:

>     - file: setup-silent-payments-onboarding-i

Reviewer: This image is missing from the repo.

Author: This is added.

    - file: recovery-wallet-birthday-prompt
      modalImage: recovery-wallet-birthday-prompt
      alt: .
      caption: .
    - file: recovery-wallet-birthday-enter
      modalImage: recovery-wallet-birthday-enter
      alt: .
      caption: .
---

<!--

Editor's notes

This page provides best practices and designers for the first-use experience of the
daily spending wallet reference design.

Source designs for all screens can be found in this Figma file:
https://www.figma.com/file/lf2Xyw2I2OXPsHiFQVQdiG/Daily-spending-wallet-prototype?node-id=4152%3A306968&t=boEAgdyqfi39SBoF-1

Source file for header image:
https://www.figma.com/file/NjtMNQiJtoVkedEHgwD0A9/BTC-DSN-Guide-Header-Images?node-id=0%3A1&t=JzVvsbPdFpjhNTGF-1

-->

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "."
   width = 1600

>    height = 1000

Reviewer: Height is incorrect.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/1617122d661dee455ee5d2e10d5e379472f540ca

   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Silent payments
{: .no_toc }

---

<div class="glossary-toc" markdown="1">
 * Table of contents
{:toc}
</div>

---

> Bitcoin addresses are only meant to be used once. Thus, transaction flows usually start with users interacting with each other to specify the on-chain address(es) to be used in the transaction, with the goal of preventing on-chain address reuse. This not only adds steps to the user flow and adds friction by way of time and mental overhead on the part of users. BIP-352 specifies a protocol called Silent Payments that allows users to avoid such an interaction altogether, while ensuring on-chain addresses are not reused through a new type of static payment addresses.

Reviewer: Good to link to the [address page](https://bitcoin.design/guide/glossary/address/) in the glossary, and also the BIP itself.

Wonder if it isn't better to start this intro paragraph with something like "Silent payments is a protocol and address type that improves/simplifies...", instead of the line about single use of addresses?

Author: Rephrased the entire intro and add reference to a nice section about address reuse in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/793aa9f23fb4eff0a76f0a41c5a817d60ab271c6

> For example, Alice, who runs an NGO, can seek bitcoin donations from her supporters by posting a static address on her website, and receive donations at unique on-chain addresses without any other interaction with the donors.

Reviewer: Could be helpful to say how this works right now ("a script that automatically generates, rotates, and tracks addresses").

Author: Intro completely revamped now...

We will first look at Labels and Contacts, then delve into how they impact/improve other features.

## Brief explanation

A silent payment transaction happens in 4 broad steps:
- The receiver shares/publishes a static payment address
- The sender obtains & uses it to derive a unique on-chain address
- The sender broadcasts a transaction that pays this derived address
- The receiver identifies the payment as theirs by identifying that they control this address

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An image that illustrates how silent payments work in 4 steps."
   caption = "."
   width = 1024
   height = 522
   layout = "full-width"
%}

With this new model of transacting, BIP-352 introduces new primitives and concepts for users and developers. Below is a brief summary of them:

> | Current terminology        | With silent payments          | Benefit |

Reviewer: I find it hard to decipher this table and would prefer full sentences.

Author: Updated in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/d9d953d4b4b4e0743ea38205a169406579e17ef6 hope this helps.

Author: The table has been updated for better phrasing but not replaced with full sentences since other s I've talked to didn't have this issue.

|:-------------|:------------------|:------|
| Single-use on-chain address           | Static address | Reusable  |
| Extended private key (xprv) | Spend key   |   |
| Extended public key (xpub)           | Scan key      | Addresses cannot be deterministically derived   |
| **Address-based model**           | **Contact-based model** | **More intuitive and familiar**  |

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_create %}

> ## Contacts & labels

Reviewer: Can contacts and labels maybe just be their own sections instead of having a combo section with two sub-sections?

Author: I'm very open to this, what would be the improvement by doing this?

### Labels

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/wallet-privacy/network-settings-big.png"
   alt-text = "An application screen showing labels being added to a static address."
   caption = "Adding labels to a static address before posting or sharing with others."
   width = 250
   height = 542
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

> BIP-352 allows users to customize their silent payment addresses on a case-by-case basis by adding labels. Users may add labels to customise their static addresses before sharing or posting them. When a payment is received, these labels can be detected and used to identify the static address used to make the payment without it being obvious on-chain.

Reviewer: Could you please verify that users can add more than 1 label? My reading from the BIP is that it's only 1, and that basically a number is added to the address, and that the wallet has match that number with some human-readable string.

Author: I think it's technically just one label but you can create a whole scheme of nested labels off-protocol.

Author: Confirmed.

</div>

This scheme improves label-related features since any labels added to a static address get auto-applied to all derived on-chain addresses (detectable only by the receiver), eliminating the friction in manually adding labels to addresses or transactions. This not only makes payment tracking possible, but also useful during automatic or manual coin selection.

For eg: a contractor Alice can add labels to her silent payment address while sharing them with a certain client, her social media and her website. When she receives payments from any of these sources, the respective label will be detected by the wallet application in the on-chain address to infer the source of the payment as this client.

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payment-labels-work.png"

Reviewer: This is a very complex diagram. Can you maybe remove some of the stuff that is already shown in the diagram above, and focus only on the label-specific information?

Author: Tried to address this in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/73d4e9128538a39f15ddf6f3b1972d5ddfdf6ad0 (or just see revised labels illustration in preview)

Reviewer 2: Definitely a tricky one! It also helped me better understand how labels can be useful with silent payments. 

I took a stab at simplyfying it a bit. I tried to reduce the number of elements in the diagram. I also feel like it's easier to parse, if it's laid out vertically. Especially on mobile phones. I also added some annotations for added context directly in the diagram. People will probably click on the enlarged view, so annotations should be helpful. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c3d1b0a-1367-4061-a4c3-f737a4a75316)

Author: Illustrations have been updated incorporating themes from this excellent suggestion.

- Static deposit addresses for exchanges: Users looking to deposit bitcoin at exchanges may get confused when they see changing/different deposit addresses. Exchanges can now share static addresses with users; this will keep deposit addresses the same while allowing the exchange to map deposit transactions to users

### Contacts

Contacts are another feature that are greatly improved with BIP-352. Since users can safely use the same silent payment address for multiple payments, it is natural for them to want to store these for future use. Contacts are a great way to store them in terms that users can intuit: names and faces/images. The Contacts page here provides good guidance about the topic.

Labels help Contacts in another interesting way by enabling ‘sender contacts’ where the user can create Contacts for parties they only receive bitcoin from. This is accomplished by adding a different label for every contact.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_contacts %}

Overall, Silent payments present a great opportunity to start basing payments UX in terms of people instead of addresses, and applications.

{% include tip/recommendation.html %}

> Wallets should create an in-app contact list and avoid storing bitcoin payment information in the operating system’s default contact list since it cannot guarantee its safety for data breaches or phone hacks.

Reviewer: I don't think it is even possible to add bitcoin payment information to OS contact lists. AFAIC, those are pretty locked down.

Author: It is possible to add custom labels for email, phone fields in iOS and store info there (see screenshot below) but that's fair coz I don't know any apps that already do something like this. Would you suggest I delete this?

![kjbvkjdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/baf475de-4145-4202-9d4f-535426e5f6ae)

Author: Regardless, this copy has been removed in a commit a few weeks back...

{% include tip/close.html %}

## Setup

Applications can take a variety of approaches to set up and communicate BIP-352 wallets. Since such a wallet has a reusable address, this could be introduced and explained to users during the setup process. Some wallets may use unique or significant locations (mobile widget, custom app logos, watch faces) to house this static address for easy retrieval, and may highlight the same during setup.

Since the BIP-352 comes with some new primitives (term) (spend key, scan key) & processes (like labels, backing up files), the setup process might be a good opportunity to introduce some of these as needed without overloading the user.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_sp-onboarding %}

> One thing to keep in mind: since silent payments impacts UX flows around sending, syncing & scanning, backup, recovery and applications might even choose to allow users to not adopt the silent payments altogether!

Reviewer: The point about interoperability is good, but it is not clear from this sentence why some wallets would not want to have those features. Is it just too much work? Or are there other downsides?

This could be a more general note about interoperability.

Author: Not sure I understood what you meant here, would love to know more...

Author: Anyway text has been removed in a commit a few weeks back...

## Sending

> With the improvements to Contacts, send flows may start from the Contact page in addition to the usual send flow that starts from the app home screen with a Send button. When users start with obtaining a static address, the derived on-chain address is visibly different from the static address the sender started with, something potentially confusing for users. Applications should take measures such as short explainers to avoid confusion on the users part. Applications that do not support silent payment addresses should provide helpful, actionable, human readable errors.

Reviewer: > send flows may start from the Contact page

We already have this in the contacts page, with the use of lightning addresses.

Author: Revised with links to existing page.

After the first use, users are typically on their own to use the application as it fits their needs, and everything should be set up appropriately. Features that are typically only relevant at later stages of the [usage life cycle]({{ '/guide/designing-products/usage-life-cycle/#first-use' | relative_url }}) may benefit from their own onboarding flows. Key is to present introductory information at the time it becomes relevant to the user.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_test-txns %}

## Receiving & scanning

Since static addresses can now be used to pay a receiver several times, receiving flows are likely to be used less often, rarely even, since static addresses can be posted in public and others can simply get it from there. So whenever the receiver is sharing a payment request, users have the opportunity to associate valuable information to it – through labels and contacts; applications should facilitate this process..

Some places where people can share static addresses (and add labels) to include:
- Social media pages
- Donate or fundraising websites
- Exchanges
- Email signatures

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html

>    modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address@2x.png"

Reviewer: There's only a modal image here, and the regular image is missing.

Author: Fixed it in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/653476cc2d65781cc4cd2340eb1a42c66a75e31e hope that's correct.

   width = 250
   height = 522
   alt-text = "An application screen showing labels being added to a static address."
   caption = "."
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

> Regularly [backing up wallet]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/landing-page/' | relative_url }}) and user data in a secure manner is essential for bitcoin applications. For small amounts of funds, [encrypted cloud backups]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/cloud-backup/' | relative_url }}) are a convenient choice with a good tradeoff between security and convenience.

Reviewer: Should this go into the backup section further down?

Author: Was a leftover from earlier, but I added a link to reference the cloud backup page already existing in the reference design in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/1b255e6d648679b326858aac40e44a26045e45b0 commit.

Frequent backups are important for lightning wallets, as channel states frequently change and need to be updated.

</div>

Receivers using mobile wallets, which may not be online 24x7 will encounter some delay (once they come online) as their wallet scans the blockchain and performs calculations to detect their payments. Applications should communicate this fact during setup/onboarding. While the scanning itself is taking place, applications should show progress data and estimated time to complete the scanning process.

The time to detect a specific received payment can be minimized if the sender & receiver can communicate with each other. Some applications already allow users to detect whether an address belongs to them. This feature should, if possible, be extended to include BIP-352 functionality.

## Backup

> Like lightning wallets, on-chain bitcoin wallets supporting full-featured BIP-352 wallets require file backups. These backup files may contain the following information:

Reviewer: For backup and recovery, how about just link out to the [backup and recovery section](https://bitcoin.design/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/landing-page/), with a small note about labels...?

Just feels like we're repeating some things here, and the point about wallet birthday is not specific to silent payments, and could be tackled on that page as well.

Author: I have now linked to the user meta section on that page for a good explanation about the need to backup that in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/30efc0019bd71fdc20a72422ecb349b9f5d94e33

I am not able to find mention of wallet bitrthday in the content, though the [backup print template](
![](https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/manual-backup/manual-backup-print-detail-full.png)
) does mention a creation date). Should I add content to that page mentioning birthday if something doesn't already exist?

While simply backing up the seed is sufficient, this results in longer wallet recovery times and causes loss of useful information.

> Since each silent payment output address is derived independently, regular backups are recommended.” - BIP352

## Recovery

A robust backup & recovery solution for BIP-352 wallets involves backup files since the wallet has important information besides just private key (recovery phrase), such as contacts and labels. Besides, wallets without a BIP-39 seed also need a backup file. On the other hand, BIP-39 wallets can be recovered with just a seed phrase, a process that can be sped up by entering the wallet creation date (wallet birthday). Thus, during wallet import (recovery), the application should provide multiple ways to restore their wallet and recover funds. This would include:
- Backup file from cloud
- import/upload backup file
- enter recovery phrase (with or without wallet birthday)
- Enter scan/spend key material

These methods are similar to other wallet/address types including lightning wallets, and are explained here.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_recovery %}

> ## Pros and cons

Reviewer: Everything below here seems like left-over from another page.

Author: You mean the recovery carousel?

-->

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "A header image with a purple gradient, the text Silent Payments and a network visual."
   width = 1600
   height = 600
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Silent payments
{: .no_toc }

---

<div class="glossary-toc" markdown="1">
 * Table of contents
{:toc}
</div>

---
[Silent payments](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0352.mediawiki) is a protocol involving static addresses that are used to derive unique on-chain address during every transaction. This prevents [address reuse](/guide/glossary/address/#address-reuse) without  repeated user interaction, enabling an interaction model for on-chain transactions centred around users.

> For eg: Alice, who runs an NGO, can simply post a static address on her website, and receive bitcoin donations at unique on-chain addresses that only she can identify. The static address itself never shows up on-chain.

Reviewer 3: I personally found this a bit confusing. 
`The static address itself never shows up on-chain.` 

I assume the static address in this case referring to the Silent Payment address? The one that begins with SP? It's clear after I think about it, but I had to stop and make sure that 'the static address' means the silent payment address.

Author: I've adopted the static address terminology since it explains how the address world and avoid questions like what is a silent payment or what's silent about the payment/address. Tried to ensure I used the same terminology everywhere on this page in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/985c8c4d94f3060759e7f50eb1bae0ed7d778356

Silent payments also allow users to customize their static address with labels that are detected when payments are received. This is a powerful feature providing useful, actionable information in [coin control](/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/) and [contacts](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/contacts/) while reducing manual efforts.

## How silent payments work

Using the same address for multiple payments tells everybody on the network that these payments were made to the same user. Every interaction to get a new address takes time and effort, along with the possibility of mistakes while handling on-chain addresses. Silent payments circumvent both these issues by using static addresses.

Here's how silent payments make this possible:
- The receiver shares/publishes a static payment address
- The sender obtains & uses it to derive a unique on-chain address
- The sender broadcasts a transaction that pays this derived address
- The receiver identifies the payment as theirs by verifying that they control this address

> 

Author: Updated in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/3e040a510d5a560e6947e9e85ee7446bad7fdad8

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An image that illustrates how silent payments work in 4 steps."
   caption = "."
   width = 1024
   height = 522
   layout = "full-width"
%}

> Silent payments introduce a new conceptual model based on new primitives and concepts which separate information based on their use. Below is a brief summary:

Author: That's fair. At this point, Christoph, Reuben and you have provided feedback about this area.... I'll look into it.

> Silent payments introduce a new conceptual model based on new primitives and concepts which separate information based on their use. Below is a brief summary:

Author: Check now (https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/d9d953d4b4b4e0743ea38205a169406579e17ef6)

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_create %}

## Contacts & labels

### Labels

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/wallet-privacy/network-settings-big.png"
   alt-text = "An application screen showing labels being added to a static address."
   caption = "Adding labels to a static address before posting or sharing with others."
   width = 250
   height = 542
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

BIP-352 allows users to customize their silent payment addresses on a case-by-case basis by adding labels. Users may add labels to customise their static addresses before sharing or posting them. When a payment is received, these labels can be detected and used to identify the static address used to make the payment without it being obvious on-chain.

</div>

To better understand this, consider: a contractor Alice can add labels to her silent payment address while sharing them

> -  with a certain client,

Author: Good point about punctuation, I'll look into it.

Receivers using mobile wallets, which may not be online 24x7 will encounter some delay (once they come online) as their wallet scans the blockchain and performs calculations to detect their payments. Applications should communicate this fact during setup/onboarding. While the scanning itself is taking place, applications should show progress data and estimated time to complete the scanning process.

The time to detect a specific received payment can be minimized if the sender & receiver can communicate with each other. Some applications already allow users to detect whether an address belongs to them. This feature should, if possible, be extended to include BIP-352 functionality.

## Backup

Like lightning wallets, on-chain bitcoin wallets supporting full-featured silent payments require file backups (in the cloud or offline) since the wallet has important [user metadata](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/landing-page/#user-metadata) such as contacts and labels, besides the private key (recovery phrase). These backup files may also contain:
- recovery phrase (for BIP 39 wallets)
- Scan and/or spend keys
- labels & even contacts
- transaction id's
- wallet birthday

> 

Reviewer 3: ```
- recovery phrase (for BIP 39 wallets)
- Scan and/or spend keys
- labels & even contacts
- transaction id's
- wallet birthday
```

Just noticed that only the second bullet point started with a capital letter.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/3e040a510d5a560e6947e9e85ee7446bad7fdad8

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_backup %}

As a best practice, some of the above information such as seed, wallet birthday should be shown to the user in the UI itself in case they misplace the file or recovery application does not support backup files or simply a redundant manual backup.

While simply backing up the seed is sufficient, but results in longer wallet recovery times and causes loss of useful information.

> Since each silent payment output address is derived independently, regular backups are recommended.” - BIP352

## Recovery

A robust backup & recovery solution for silent payment wallets involves backup files. Also, wallets without a BIP-39 seed also need a backup file anyway. On the other hand, BIP-39 wallets can be recovered with just a seed phrase, a process that can be sped up by entering the wallet creation date (wallet birthday). Thus, during wallet import (recovery), the application should provide users multiple ways to restore their wallet and recover funds. This would include:
- Backup file from cloud
- import/upload backup file
- enter recovery phrase (with or without wallet birthday)
- Enter scan/spend key material

> 

Reviewer 3: ```
- Backup file from cloud
- import/upload backup file
- enter recovery phrase (with or without wallet birthday)
- Enter scan/spend key material
```

Same here - just noticed some inconsistency capitalization.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/3e040a510d5a560e6947e9e85ee7446bad7fdad8

> These methods are similar to other wallet/address types including lightning wallets, and are explained over 4 detailed pages [here](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/landing-page/).

Reviewer 3: What if instead of having the words "here" as the hyperlink we explicity let the user know the section? For example?

`These methods are similar to other wallet/address types including lightning wallets, and are explained in the Backup & recovery section.`

Author: Done in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/3e040a510d5a560e6947e9e85ee7446bad7fdad8

Here's how silent payments make this possible:
1. The receiver shares/publishes a static payment address
2. The sender obtains & uses it to derive a unique on-chain address
3. The sender broadcasts a transaction that pays this derived address
4. The receiver identifies the payment as theirs by verifying that they control this address

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An image that illustrates how silent payments work in 4 steps."
   caption = "."
   width = 1024
   height = 522
   layout = "full-width"
%}

> Silent payments introduces a new model based on new primitives/concepts that separates payment information based on its use. Below is a brief summary:

Reviewer 2: This sentence sounds quite cryptic. In addition, it's a relatively abrupt jump from the section that explains how SP work. 

How about adding a new section called "A new conceptual model". The new section could start with something like the sentence below:

_Silent payments introduce a new conceptual model which is based on people, rather than addresses. This new model unlocks opportunities for more contextual and intuitive user experiences for bitcoin payments._

Author: Yup, this one being a bit naughty and seems to be an issue despite some efforts :/

I like your conceptual model section idea, especially coz I added a second table just yesterday! Will revisit.

Author: Phrasing has been improved in myriad ways based on this feedback as well as reading session.

| Current model with BIP-32       | Silent payments model          | Benefit  |
|:-------------|:------------------|:------|
| Single-use on-chain address           | Static address | Reusable & untraceable on-chain |
| Extended private key (xprv) | Spend (private) key   |   |
| Extended public key (xpub)           | Scan (public) key      | Allows scanning for payments but not derivation of addresses    |
| **Address-based model**           | **Contact-based model** | **More intuitive and familiar**  |

## Labels & contacts

### Labels

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/wallet-privacy/network-settings-big.png"
   alt-text = "An application screen showing labels being added to a static address."
   caption = "Adding labels to a static address before posting or sharing with others."
   width = 250
   height = 542
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

> BIP-352 allows users to customize their static addresses on a case-by-case basis by adding labels. Users may add labels to customise their static addresses before sharing or posting them. When a payment is received, these labels can be detected and used to identify the static address used to make the payment without it being obvious on-chain.

Reviewer 2: I would expect a couple of sentences about what labels are in general and how they are used today, before diving into the details of how labels work with silent payments and why they are useful.

Author: Done

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "A header image with a purple gradient, the text Silent Payments and a network visual."
   width = 1600
   height = 600
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Silent payments
{: .no_toc }

---

<div class="glossary-toc" markdown="1">
 * Table of contents
{:toc}
</div>

---

[Silent payments](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0352.mediawiki) is a protocol the uses static addresses to simplify payment experience while preserving privacy. Once the receiver shares a static address, senders derive a new unique on-chain address with it they make a payment. This prevents [address reuse](/guide/glossary/address/#address-reuse) without repeated user interaction.

For e.g: Alice can simply post a static address on her website, and receive bitcoin donations at unique on-chain addresses. The static address itself never shows up on-chain.

> Silent payments also allow users to customize their static address with labels that are detected when payments are received. This is a powerful tool that provides actionable information for [coin selection](/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/#coin-selection) with minimal manual effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Silent payments also allow users to customize their static address with labels that are detected when payments are received. This is a powerful tool that provides actionable information for [coin selection](/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/#coin-selection), with minimal manual effort.
```

2. The sender obtains & uses it to derive a unique on-chain address (partly automated)
3. The sender broadcasts a transaction that pays this derived address (manual)
4. The receiver scans the blockchain & identifies their payments (automated)

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work-mobile@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An image that illustrates how silent payments work in 4 steps."
   caption = "Alice posts a static address on the website of her non-profit, Chasing Rabbits. Bob uses it to send bitcoin from his wallet. This transaction pays a derived on-chain address that Alice can recognise while scanning the blockchain."
   width = 1024
   height = 640
   layout = "full-width"
%}

## A new conceptual model

> Silent payments introduce a new technical model that separates payment information based on their purpose.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence. How is payment information separated, what payment information is this (amount?) and from what is it separated from?

Author: The table and the text below it explains this...

For example: the static address is only shared with senders who use it to make payments. Payment detection is done with a separate scan key and doesn't use the static address at all. Here are the main components of this new model:

| Component       |Used by         | Purpose |
|:-------------|:------------------|:------|
| Static address | Senders | Making payments

> | Scan key     | Nodes & [light clients](/guide/how-it-works/nodes/#light-nodes)  | Detecting payments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scan key     | [Nodes & light clients]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/nodes/' | relative_url }}) | Detecting payments
```
We're linking to the "Nodes" page, so it makes sense to include that word in the link as well.

Can you please update the internal links on this page to use this `relative_url` format? It's what makes it possible to host the site on any domain/subdomain/etc.

| Spend key   | Wallet owner | Spending bitcoin

> The above model introduces a scan key that is used for payment scanning and a static address which is used for deriving on-chain addresses. This is in contrast with the BIP-32 model where [extended public keys](/guide/glossary/#extended-public-key-xpub-ypub-zpub) are used for both purposes. Below is a summary of the differences between the two models:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above model introduces a scan key that is used for payment scanning and a static address which is used for deriving on-chain addresses. This is in contrast with the [BIP-32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) model where [extended public keys](/guide/glossary/#extended-public-key-xpub-ypub-zpub) are used for both purposes. Below is a summary of the differences between the two models:
```

> | BIP-32       | Silent payments          | Benefit  |

Reviewer: Still don't think this table works very well. You get one word per line on mobile, and desktop is also not that nice. No way to format this as text instead?

<img width="846" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/53e72dc8-0762-46c9-8508-a0b51326a138">

![IMG_8862](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f13a4a4e-db8a-4e60-a1aa-6cc02a405f14)

|:-------------|:------------------|:------|
| Single-use on-chain address           | Static address | Reusable & untraceable on-chain |
| Extended private key (xprv) | Spend (private) key   |   |
| Extended public key (xpub)           | Scan (public) key      | Nodes & [light clients](/guide/how-it-works/nodes/#light-nodes) can scan for payments but cannot derive addresses    |
| *Address-based model*           | *Contact-based model* | *More intuitive and familiar*  |

## Labels & contacts

### Labels

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An application screen showing labels being added to a static address."
   caption = "Adding labels to a static address before posting or sharing with others."
   width = 250
   height = 542
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

> Labels or tags (such as `business` or `no-kyc`) are brief identifiers often associated with information such as payments, transactions and addresses. They're used to organise, categorise or quickly spot items from a large set.

Reviewer: Is it labels or tags? Are those two different features? If tag is just another word people use for labels sometimes, then I'd make that clear.

> Labels or tags (such as `business` or `no-kyc`) are brief identifiers often associated with information such as payments, transactions and addresses. They're used to organise, categorise or quickly spot items from a large set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels or tags (such as `business` or `no-kyc`) are brief identifiers often associated with information, such as payments, transactions and addresses. They're used to organise, categorise or quickly spot items from a large set.
```

Silent payments allow users to add labels to their static addresses on a case-by-case basis before sharing or posting them. When a payment is received, these labels can be detected by the receiver (but no one else) and used to identify the static address that was used to make the payment.

</div>

> For example, Alice can add can customise her static address with different labels before sharing them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Alice can customise her static address with different labels before sharing them:
```

- with a certain client
- on Nostr and
- on her website

When she receives payments from any of these sources, the respective label(s) will be detected in the on-chain address and used to infer the source of the payment.

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payment-labels-work.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payment-labels-work@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payment-labels-work-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payment-labels-work-mobile@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payment-labels-work@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An image that illustrates how labels feature in silent payments works."
   caption = "Alice customizes her static address with labels before she shares them. Whenever she receives a payment from one of them, the label is auto-applied and detected by the wallet."
   width = 1024
   height = 801
   layout = "full-width"
%}

> This scheme improves labelling in general since labels get auto-applied to all derived on-chain addresses. This eliminates the friction of manually adding labels to addresses or transactions. Labels can contain crucial information that is useful for automatic or manual coin selection for future outgoing payments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scheme improves labelling in general, since labels get auto-applied to all derived on-chain addresses. This eliminates the friction of manually adding labels to addresses or transactions. Labels can contain crucial information that is useful for automatic or manual coin selection for future outgoing payments.
```

#### Tracking payments

> Without using labels, receivers have no way of knowing who may have paid them since they do not interact with the sender to provide them a on-chain address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Senders independently derive on-chain addresses. Without labels, receivers have no way of knowing who may have paid them.
```
Trying to simplify this long run-on sentence.

{% include tip/recommendation.html %}

> Labels in silent payments are critical if receivers such as businesses need to match payments with customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels in silent payments are critical if receivers, such as businesses, need to match payments with customers.
```

{% include tip/close.html %}

> Here's how businesses such as exchanges, merchants and vendors can use labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's how businesses, such as exchanges, merchants and vendors can use labels:
```

> - Invoices: merchant software like [BTCPay](https://btcpayserver.org/) must use labels to match incoming payments with invoices and/or provide static addresses to repeat customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Invoices:** merchant software like [BTCPay](https://btcpayserver.org/) must use labels to match incoming payments with invoices and/or provide unique static addresses to repeat customers.
```
Bolding for better readability.

> - Bitcoin exchange deposits: Customers looking to sell/deposit bitcoin at exchanges encounter friction when their deposit addresses change constantly. Labelled static addresses for users fix this without address reuse while retaining the ability to match deposits to customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Bitcoin exchange deposits:** Customers looking to sell/deposit bitcoin at exchanges encounter friction when their deposit addresses change constantly. Labelled static addresses for users fix this without address reuse, while retaining the ability to match deposits to customers.
```Bolding for better readability.

### Contacts

 Since senders can safely use the same static address for multiple payments, it is natural for them to want to store these for future use. Contacts are a great way to do this in terms that users can intuit: names and faces. The [contacts](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/contacts/) page provides guidance about the topic.

>  Silent payments (along with bolt-12) allow applications to center their payments experience around people instead of addresses, something that was not advisable before due to issues with on-chain address reuse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Silent payments (along with [BOLT-12](http://bolt12.org)) allow applications to center their payments experience around people instead of addresses. This was not advisable before, due to issues with on-chain address reuse.
```

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_contacts %}

{% include tip/tip.html %}

 Contacts are not just for sending. The receiver can create contacts for parties they only receive bitcoin from. When they share a labelled static addresses with others, such as employers or customers, creating a contact can help with invoicing, tracking payments and coin selection.

{% include tip/close.html %}

## Setup

Applications can take a variety of approaches to set up and communicate silent payment wallets. Benefits of silent payments such as Contacts and auto-labelling should be explained during setup. Some wallets may use unique or significant locations (mobile widget, custom app logos, watch faces) to place this static address for easy retrieval, and may highlight the same during setup.

> {% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_sp-onboarding %}

Author: Great catches, thank you!

## Sending

> With the improvements to contacts, on-chain send flows may start from a number of [entry points](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/sending/#payment-entry-points). When users start with obtaining a static address, every on-chain address derived from it will be visibly different from the static address the sender started with. This is likely to be confusing for users. Applications should take measures such as short explainers to avoid confusion on the users part. Test transactions are another good way to help users deal with this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the improvements to contacts, on-chain send flows may start from a number of [entry points](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/sending/#payment-entry-points). When users start with obtaining a static address, every on-chain address derived from it will be visibly different from the static address the sender started with. This is likely to be confusing for users. Applications should take measures such as short explainers to avoid confusion on the user's part. Test transactions are another good way to help users deal with this.
```

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_send %}

{% include tip/recommendation.html %}

Applications that do not support static addresses should provide helpful, actionable, human readable errors.

{% include tip/close.html %}

### Coin selection
As mentioned in the introduction, coin selection can be significantly improved due to auto-applied label information. Applications should encourage and assist users during coin selection by surfacing relevant or related labels. Automatic coin selection should be improved with all the label information available.

{% include tip/tip.html %}

> The coin(s) selected for a transaction determine the derived on-chain address due to the nature of silent payments protocol. The interface should avoid showing the on-chain address before the coin selection is done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The coin(s) selected for a transaction determine the derived on-chain address, due to the nature of the silent payments protocol. The interface should avoid showing the on-chain address before the coin selection is done.
```

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_recovery %}

## Pros and cons

{% include fact/pros.html %}

- Prevents address reuse without repeated user interactions
- Enables a better user interaction model centred around users instead of unwieldy addresses
- Reduces the possibility of mistakes while handling on-chain addresses
- Allows users to optionally infer payment sources through labels
- Auto-applied labels improve coin-labelling and coin selection
- Scanning process is more private since sharing on-chain addresses (or xpubs) is not required

{% include fact/close.html %}

{% include fact/cons.html %}

- Static addresses do not match on-chain addresses in transactions, breaking the conceptual model for seasoned users
- Scanning for payments doesn’t work well with electrum servers (widely used by wallets)

{% include fact/close.html %}

## Resources

- [BIP-352](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0352.mediawiki)
- [https://silentpayments.xyz/](https://silentpayments.xyz/)

> ### Wallets implementing silent payments

Reviewer 2: Bitbox recently supported sending to silent payment addresses as well, being the first hardware device to support the feature.

This page provides UX insights, best practices and designs for silent payments.

Source designs for all screens can be found in this Figma file:
https://www.figma.com/design/q8IYl9UVsOWkkPhs4IkHQR/Bitcoin-Wallet-UI-Kit-%26-Design-System-(SP-updates)?node-id=5621-52155&t=4frDIaY1YrPQurMl-1
Source file for header image:
https://www.figma.com/design/q8IYl9UVsOWkkPhs4IkHQR/Bitcoin-Wallet-UI-Kit-%26-Design-System-(SP-updates)?node-id=5873-1050&t=4frDIaY1YrPQurMl-1
-->

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/silent-payments/silent-payments-header-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "A header image with a purple gradient, the text Silent Payments and a network visual."
   width = 1600
   height = 600
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Silent payments
{: .no_toc }

---

<div class="glossary-toc" markdown="1">
 * Table of contents
{:toc}
</div>

---

> [Silent payments](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0352.mediawiki) is a protocol the uses static addresses to simplify payment experience while preserving privacy. Once the receiver shares a static address, senders derive a new unique on-chain address with it they make a payment. This prevents [address reuse](/guide/glossary/address/#address-reuse) without repeated user interaction.

Author: I prefer current phrasing.

> For eg: Alice can simply post a static address on her website, and receive bitcoin donations at unique on-chain addresses. The static address itself never shows up on-chain.

Author: Fixed with "e.g."

> For eg: Alice can simply post a static address on her website, and receive bitcoin donations at unique on-chain addresses. The static address itself never shows up on-chain.

Author: Done

Silent payments also allow users to customize their static address with labels that are detected when payments are received. This is a powerful tool that provides actionable information for [coin selection](/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/#coin-selection) with minimal manual effort.

Static addresses & labels enable robust [contacts](/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/#contacts) features. The result is a better interaction model centred around users.

### Rationale

Since the blockchain is public, reusing an on-chain address for payments informs the network that these payments are made to the same user. However, specifying a new address for each transaction usually requires user interaction. This is error-prone, takes time and requires manual effort.

Silent payments circumvent both these issues by using static addresses (starting with `sp1`).

## How silent payments work

> Silent payments are made in 4 broad steps:

Author: I prefer the current phrasing.

3. The sender broadcasts a transaction that pays this derived address (manual)
4. The receiver scans the blockchain & identifies their payments (automated)

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payments-work-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = "An image that illustrates how silent payments work in 4 steps."
   caption = "Alice posts a static address on the website of her non-profit, Chasing Rabbits. Bob uses it to send bitcoin from his wallet. This transaction pays a derived on-chain address that Alice can recognise while scanning the blockchain."
   width = 1024
   height = 522
   layout = "full-width"
%}

## A new conceptual model

Silent payments introduce a new technical model that separates payment information based on their purpose.

For eg: the static address is only shared with senders who use it to make payments.

> Below is a summary of the keys & addresses i

Author: I prefer the scan key explainer between the two tables.

| Silent payments' concept       | Shared with         | for: |
|:-------------|:------------------|:------|
| Static address | Senders | Making payments
| Scan key     | Nodes & [light clients](/guide/how-it-works/nodes/#light-nodes)  | Payment scanning information
| Spend key   | Wallet owner | Spending bitcoin

> The above model introduces a scan key that is used for payment scanning and a static address which is used for deriving on-chain addresses. This is in contrast with the BIP-32 model where [extended public keys](/guide/glossary/#extended-public-key-xpub-ypub-zpub) are used for both purposes. Below is a summary of the differences between the two models:

Author: It makes more sense to be in between the two tables, especially before the second table which describes the differences in greater detail.

| Extended public key (xpub)           | Scan (public) key      | Nodes & [light clients](/guide/how-it-works/nodes/#light-nodes) can scan for payments but cannot derive addresses    |
| *Address-based model*           | *Contact-based model* | *More intuitive and familiar*  |

## Labels & contacts

### Labels

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/adding-labels-to-static-address@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/wallet-privacy/network-settings-big.png"
   alt-text = "An application screen showing labels being added to a static address."
   caption = "Adding labels to a static address before posting or sharing with others."
   width = 250
   height = 542
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

Labels or tags (such as 'business' or 'no-kyc') are brief identifiers often associated with information such as payments, transactions and addresses. They're used to organise, categorise or quickly spot items from a large set.

> Silent payments allows users to add labels to their static addresses on a case-by-case basis before sharing or posting them. When a payment is received, these labels can be detected and used by the receiver (but no one else) to identify the static address used to make the payment.

Author: Good suggestion. Implementing a variant of this.

</div>

For example, Alice can add can customise her static address with different labels before sharing them
- with a certain client
- on nostr and
- on her website

When she receives payments from any of these sources, the respective label(s) will be detected in the on-chain address and used to infer the source of the payment.

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/how-silent-payment-labels-work.png"

Author: Added desktop modals in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/1109/commits/55f60e332247a02c15dd043db7abcd8ff475e483. Mobile modals are not required since I adjusted their aspect ratio to approximate the avg mobile screen aspect ratio  so they already show full size without the modal.

 Silent payments (along with bolt-12) allow applications the ability to base payments UX around people instead of addresses, something that was not advisable before due to issues with on-chain address reuse.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_contacts %}

{% include tip/tip.html %}

 Contacts are not just for sending, the receiver can create contacts for parties they only receive bitcoin from. When they share a labelled static addresses with others, such as employers or customers, creating a contact can help invoicing, tracking payments and even coin selection data analysis.

{% include tip/close.html %}

## Setup

Applications can take a variety of approaches to set up and communicate silent payment wallets. Benefits of silent payments such as Contacts and auto-labelling can be explained during setup. Some wallets may use unique or significant locations (mobile widget, custom app logos, watch faces) to house this static address for easy retrieval, and may highlight the same during setup.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_sp-onboarding %}

> Silent payment wallets may or may not be set up as [BIP-39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) and/or [BIP-32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) HD wallets since the protocol does not require these.

Author: Good question, I have to think about its place here based on implications. I had written it just as a mention since address don't need to be derived by the receivers at all so BIP-32 is not required...

> Silent payment wallets may or may not be set up as [BIP-39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) and/or [BIP-32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki) HD wallets since the protocol does not require these.

Author: Removed. Good catch, thanks!

## Sending

> With the improvements to Contacts, on-chain send flows may start from a number of [entry points](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/sending/#payment-entry-points). When users start with obtaining a static address, every on-chain address derived from it will be visibly different from the static address the sender started with. This is likely to be confusing for users. Applications should take measures such as short explainers to avoid confusion on the users part. Test transactions are another good way to help users deal with this.

Author: Fixed.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_send %}

{% include tip/recommendation.html %}

Applications that do not support static addresses should provide helpful, actionable, human readable errors.

{% include tip/close.html %}

### Coin selection

> As mentioned in the introduction, coin selection can be done much better due to auto-applied label information. Applications should encourage & assist users in performing coin selection by surfacing relevant or related labels or other methods. Automatic coin selection should be improved with all the label information available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the introduction, coin selection can be significantly improved due to auto-applied label information. Applications should encourage and assist users during coin selection by surfacing relevant or related labels. Automatic coin selection should be improved with all the label information available.
```

Author: Accepting this is local commit.

{% include tip/close.html %}

## Receiving & scanning

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/static-address-with-customization-options.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/static-address-with-customization-options@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/static-address-with-customization-options.png"
   width = 250
   height = 522
   alt-text = "The user contact page listing their receive static address along with the ability to add labels before sharing it."
   caption = "The user contact page allows the user to add labels to their receive static address before sharing it."
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

Receiving flows are likely to be used less often since static addresses can be safely reused. If the receiver has publicly posted their static address, they will receive payments without any interaction with the sender. Therefore, applications should encourage users to add labels or a contact whenever they actively share a static address with a sender.

> Applications should also allow receivers to share an on-chain address itself in case the sender's wallet cannot send to static addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applications should also allow receivers to generate and share conventional on-chain addresses in case the sender's wallet cannot send to static addresses.
```

> Some places where people can share static addresses (and add labels) include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some practical examples for where users might want to share (labelled) static addresses include:
```

- Social media pages
- Fundraising websites
- Exchanges
- Email signatures

</div>

> The tradeoff with silent payments for all their benefits is a higher blockchain scanning requirement. This scanning process is more computation-intensive and time-consuming than popular BIP-32 wallets/addresses. Mobile wallet users are likely to face a noticeable delay in the detecting payments once they come online. While the scanning is takes place, applications should show progress and estimated time to complete the scanning process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tradeoff with silent payments, for all their benefits, is a higher blockchain scanning requirement. This scanning process is more computation-intensive and time-consuming than for popular BIP-32 wallets and addresses. Mobile wallet users are likely to face a noticeable delay in the detecting payments once they come online. While the scanning is takes place, applications should show progress and estimated time to complete the scanning process.
```

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/backup-wallet-birthday.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/backup-wallet-birthday@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/backup-wallet-birthday.png"
   width = 250
   height = 522
   alt-text = "A backup flow screen with a calendar visual highlighting the wallet creation date and mentioning it prominently."
   caption = "Display wallet birthday as a part of the backup flow and explain the benefit of storing it."
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

Like [lightning wallets](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/cloud-backup/), on-chain wallets with robust silent payments functionality require file backups (cloud or offline). This is because such wallets have valuable [user metadata](/guide/daily-spending-wallet/backup-and-recovery/landing-page/#user-metadata) such as:
- scan and/or spend keys
- [tweak data](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0352.mediawiki#user-content-Tweak_Data)
- [labels](/guide/how-it-works/silent-payments/#labels)
- contacts

> Allowing the user to manually note some backup information in case the user misplaces the backup file or recovery application does not support backup files. Like regular wallets, silent payment wallets can also be backed up & restored with the recovery phrase. However, it may result in longer recovery times as well as loss of valuable metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applications should allow users to manually note backup information in case they misplace the backup file or the recovery application does not support backup files at all. Like regular wallets, silent payment wallets can also be backed up with restored using a recovery phrase. However, this method may result in longer recovery times as well as loss of valuable metadata.
```
